Have You Heard Of Montreal?
Published on February 24, 2006.
No, not that city in Canada, the band, “ Of Montreal ?”
I’ve written about them before, but they’re pretty good, so I think they deserve a whole freakin’ post.
In fact, they’re probably my favorite band, at the moment.
My favorite band used to be They Might Be Giants, because of their nerdy lyrics and infectious melodies.
Lately, though, they’ve been veering off course and going into some bad territory.
When every other release from a rock band is a kid’s album, something is wrong.
I have a feeling they’ve sold out, and they’re “over the hill” now, so to speak.
Anyway, back to the band at hand.
Of Montreal is this crazy indie type band that plays just the kind of music I like.
Insane music! The lyrics usually don’t make any sense, and when they do, they form some kind of grandiose plot, kind of like a rock opera.
Many of their song names don’t even make sense.
Just check out the tracklisting for their Early Four Track Recordings album. Weird.
I think their more current albums are more synthesis/electronica based, whereas their older albums are more dirty lo-fi guitar sounding affairs (which isn’t a bad thing).
Sure, they’re a might bit pretentious, but they’ve got the awesomeness to back it up.
The albums I’ve bought from them are Early Four Track Recordings , and Aldhils Arboretum .
Both are pretty awesome.
The Gay Parade and Horse & Elephant Eatery (No Elephants Allowed) are also really good.
You can download a ton of MP3s from their website (legally, even!).
I recommend The Problem With April and Nickee Coco and the Invisible Tree for starters.
It’s really nice to find a band and actually become a fan; Something I haven’t done in quite a while.
I really should actively look for new music to listen to, but I guess I’m kind of lazy when it comes to that.
Maybe I’ll become an Of Montreal expert before I go looking for any more music…